---
title: '"Creating and managing 7DTD server" grandpa''s cookbook'
---

Disclaimer 

This technical manual created by DobriyDed and reflects my personal opinion about the creation of the 7 days to die server and may not coincide with the opinions of other people. Its purpose is to facilitate the first steps for people who have not previously engaged in similar tasks. English is not my native language, so do not be angry at grammar This section of the documentation will be supplemented with data gradually.In some point of life you realize, that no existing 7 Days To Die server is good for you. Closed or unfriendly community, lags, lazy admins, cheaters walking free and ruining game for everyone. There are many reasons that can push you to decision of creating new one. Anyway, your own server to play with a friends sounds like a good idea, so let's begin!The first and most important step - read the main articles to see if you have enough resources for the upcoming processPlease do not skip this section!Hardware, hosting and OS - for basic understanding of server configuration, different hosting types and OS selection ideasBefore we begin - to familiarize yourself with the infrastructure and knowledge requirements that will be used in the process.Server OS, gameserver and scripts installation is described in following sections:OS Download. Boot media preparation - OS downloads, preparing boot mediaInstalling server OS - Basic guide for Ubuntu Server 18.04LTS installationOS configuration and updates - Steps, describing the process of preparing OS for the installation of the gameserver and its control componentsInstallation of gameserver software and scripts - Installing  dependencies, prerequisites and gameserver itself. Install  process troubleshooting.(Optional) Switching to experimental/BETA versions - If you plan to use alpha 17 experimental branch versionFirst time server start - Gameserver test run, LAN connection test Configuring network router. Portforarding and firewalls - Network setupTroubleshooting. Log parsing - Log file examples with comments on key pointsAdditional infoRef#1: Data,configuration and log files location - Where are all useful files located? Directory structure of a serverRef#2: Server .XML file parameters - How to edit key server parameters with main XML configuration file. New Alpha17 parametersRef#3. File transfer and editing - How to copy, move and edit files
